# QUARTERLY NEWSLETTER # Promoting Data Protection and Cyber Security # JAN - MAR 2025 # CAPACITY BUILDING # SKILL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH DSCI CERTIFICATIONS | Professionals Trained: 21 | Professionals Trained: 29 | Professionals Trained: 62 | Professionals Trained: 40 | Professionals Trained: 35 | | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------------- | | Batches Conducted: 5 | | | | | | Batch: 12ᵗʰ | | | | | Wrapped up the pilot batch of the DSCI Certiﬁed Quantum Technology & Security Professional (DCQTSP) in partnership with QNu Labs in Bangalore. With a special focus on quantum technologies, the 3-day program brought together experts from academia, ISRO, finance, energy, aerospace, and more, fostering rich cross-sector insights. Participants also engaged hands-on with real quantum hardware like QRNGs and QKD systems. The 2nd batch of the 3-day executive DSCI Certiﬁed Strategist Program, held in Mumbai, equipped executive leaders with in-depth knowledge of cybersecurity and privacy governance, where participants came from organizations like Worldline Global Services Pvt. Ltd., Saarth Infosec Private Limited, Angel One Limited, CDS, Kyndryl, AIS Business Solutions Pvt. Ltd., and Fin Soft Solutions. Cyber Sainik, in collaboration with Kyndryl, successfully concluded the final phase of its first edition in Mangaluru, Karnataka, impacting 600+ beneficiaries. The sessions covered essential cyber safety topics, including cyberspace basics, internet functionality, social media risks, cyberbullying, grooming, and stalking. The Cyber for HER hackathon curated for young women aged 18-23 was concluded with support from the British High Commission, New Delhi and sponsored by Rubrik. Around 1,300+ registrations and 550+ submissions on themes- Cyber Awareness, Digital Hygiene, and Privacy Protection were received during phase one. In phase two, 200 shortlisted candidates then competed against each other for the in-person hackathon. The winning team, the first and second runners-up received cash prizes worth INR 2,00,000/-, INR 1,50,000/-, and INR 70,000/- respectively. | Winner | 1st Runner-up | 2nd Runner-up | | ------------------ | ------------- | -------------- | | Team Fallen\_Order | Team Nova | Team ArthSutra | DSCI’s joint women skilling initiative with Microsoft, CyberShikshaa had 115 students complete the program with 50% successful placements. This year, the spectrum of recruiters increased with Nvidia Corporation India, Finance Dept. Govt. of Tripura, Co-operative Bank -Thrissur, Luminar Technolab, Calicut, Govt. of Kerala Panchayat E-Services, Alappuzha, Trimax, Cochin and SIBIN Group coming onboard. The third batch of the program was recently launched in Mohali, Punjab, in collaboration with Kyndryl Foundation. The program engaged 35 young learners, marking a return for the initiatives in the state. The joint initiative with Kyndryl India, CyberVaahini is currently training batches in Pune and Kolkata for the cyber skilling of 100 women from tier-II and tier-III cities as proposed under the program. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, an expert session for CyberVaahini students was organized on ‘How Organizations Operate in Cyber Ecosystem with Today's AI Threats and Cloud Security Aspects.’ The session was taken by Ms. Sunanda Lalchandani, Director, DEFEND Platform India Lead & Global ISO 27001 Program Lead (ISMS) BNY India. Students from Pune and Kolkata batch were also a part of the engaging discussion. A 10-day IIT Jammu Comprehensive Cyber Security Competency Development Programme (CDP) was specially designed for IES/ITS officers at DSCI, Noida campus. This specialized program empowered officers with industry insights and cutting-edge capabilities to safeguard India's critical communications through: strategic cybersecurity planning, digital forensics expertise, and advanced threat detection. The program concluded with a felicitation ceremony for over 30 participants. # GLOBAL TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT DSCI joined the Cybersec Asia opening ceremony, leading a delegation of six Indian cybersecurity companies showcasing their innovative solutions. A special session, “India-Thailand Cybersecurity Connect: Spotlight on Innovation,” saw participation from Thailand’s NCSA, industry associations, tech bodies, and government authorities, highlighting a strong commitment to cross-border cybersecurity cooperation.